docs/content/features/geolocation.md, before:

---
title: Geolocation
menu:
    main:
        parent: features
        weight: 2
description: Decrypts the fine-timestamp of geolocation capable LoRa gateways and resolves the device location using a Geolocation Server.
---

# Geolocation

LoRa Server supports geolocation by using an external geolocation-server service.
You can either use the geolocation-server provided by the LoRa Server project,
or implement your own (matching the expected [api]({{<ref "/integrate/api.md" >}})).

## Requirements

For using geolocation, you need to use gateways that are capable of providing
a "fine-timestamp". Some of these gateways encrypt this fine-timestamp.

## Decrypt fine-timestamp

When configuring the per gateway and board specific decryption key, LoRa Server
will decrypt the fine-timestamp, before forwarding it to the geolocation-server.
For getting this fine-timestamp decryption key, please contact your gateway vendor
or Semtech.

## Multi-frame geolocation

LoRa Server support multi-frame geolocation to increase the geolocation accuracy.
In the [Device Profile]({{<relref "device-profile.md">}}) it is possible to
configure the:

* TTL of each item in the geolocation buffer
* Minimum buffer size before using geolocation

Example:

When the TTL is set to 5 minutes (300 seconds) and the minimum buffer size is
set to 3, then geolocation will only be used when there are at least 3 frames
in the geolocation buffer that are received within the last 5 minutes.

## Device location

When LoRa Server (using the geolocation-server) is able to resolve the location
of the device, it will forward this to the application-server.

Commit message:

Rename to ChirpStack Network Server.

docs/content/features/geolocation.md, after:

---
title: Geolocation
menu:
    main:
        parent: features
        weight: 2
description: Decrypts the fine-timestamp of geolocation capable LoRa gateways and resolves the device location using a Geolocation Server.
---

# Geolocation

ChirpStack Network Server supports geolocation by using an external geolocation-server service.
You can either use [ChirpStack Geolocation Server](/geolocation-server/)
or implement your own (matching the expected [API]({{<ref "/integrate/api.md" >}})).

## Requirements

For using geolocation, you need to use gateways that are capable of providing
a "fine-timestamp". Some of these gateways encrypt this fine-timestamp.

## Decrypt fine-timestamp

When configuring the per gateway and board specific decryption key, ChirpStack Network Server
will decrypt the fine-timestamp, before forwarding it to the geolocation-server.
For getting this fine-timestamp decryption key, please contact your gateway vendor
or Semtech.

## Multi-frame geolocation

ChirpStack Network Server support multi-frame geolocation to increase the geolocation accuracy.
In the [Device Profile]({{<relref "device-profile.md">}}) it is possible to
configure the:

* TTL of each item in the geolocation buffer
* Minimum buffer size before using geolocation

Example:

When the TTL is set to 5 minutes (300 seconds) and the minimum buffer size is
set to 3, then geolocation will only be used when there are at least 3 frames
in the geolocation buffer that are received within the last 5 minutes.

## Device location

When ChirpStack Network Server (using the [Geolocation Server](/geolocation-server/)) is able to resolve the location
of the device, it will forward this to the application-server.
