docs/api.md, before:

# API

LoRa Server provides a [gRPC](http://www.grpc.io/) API for easy integration
with your own platform. On top of this gRPC API, LoRa Server provides a
RESTful JSON interface, so that you can use the API for web-applications
(note that gRPC is a binary API layer, on top of
[protocol-buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/).

!!! info "Protocol-buffer files"
	LoRa Server provides a gRPC client for Go. For other programming languages
	you can use the .proto files inside the [api](https://github.com/brocaar/loraserver/tree/master/api)
	folder for generating clients. See the [gRPC](http://www.grpc.io/) documentation
	for documentation.


## gRPC interface

The following example in [Go](https://golang.org/) creates an application and
node using the gRPC API:

```go
package main

import (
	"log"

	"golang.org/x/net/context"
	"google.golang.org/grpc"

	"github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api"
)

func main() {
	conn, err := grpc.Dial("localhost:9000", grpc.WithInsecure())
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	defer conn.Close()

	appClient := api.NewApplicationClient(conn)
	nodeClient := api.NewNodeClient(conn)

	_, err = appClient.Create(context.Background(), &api.CreateApplicationRequest{
		AppEUI: "0102030405060708",
		Name:   "example app",
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

	_, err = nodeClient.Create(context.Background(), &api.CreateNodeRequest{
		DevEUI: "0807060504030201",
		AppEUI: "0102030405060708",
		AppKey: "01020304050607080102030405060708",
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
}
```

The following clients are available:

* [ApplicationClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#ApplicationClient)
* [NodeClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#NodeClient)
* [NodeSessionClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#NodeSessionClient)
* [ChannelClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#ChannelClient)
* [ChannelListClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#ChannelListClient)


## RESTful JSON interface

Since gRPC [can't be used in browsers yet](http://www.grpc.io/faq/), LoRa Server
provides a RESTful JSON API (by using [grpc-gateway](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway))
on top of the gRPC API, exposing the same API methods as the gRPC API.
The REST API documentation and interactive console can be found at `/api/v1`.

![Swagger API](img/swaggerapi.jpg)

## Authentication and authorization

Both the gRPC and RESTful JSON interface provide an option for authentication
and authorization using JSON web tokens / [JWT](https://jwt.io). To enable
this option, make sure to start LoRa Server with the `--jwt-secret` argument
(or `JWT_SECRET` environment variable). 

An example claim illustrating the options that can be included in the token:

```json
{
	"exp": 1257894000,             // the unix time when the token expires
	"admin": false,                // admin users have access to all api methods and resources
	"api": ["Node.Get"],           // list of api methods the user has access to
	"apps": ["0102030405060708"],  // list of AppEUIs the user has access to
	"nodes": ["*"]                 // list of DevEUIs the user has access to
}
```

For nodes and applications, besides the (hex encoded) AppEUI / DevEUI a
wildcard (`*`) can be given to give the user access to all applications
and / or nodes.


The API methods can be given as:

* `[*]`: all methods of all the APIs
* `["Node.Get"]`: listing each APIs method
* `["Node.(Get|Delete)"]`: combining multiple methods for the same API
* `["Node.*"]`: all methods of the Node API

### Setting the authentication token

For requests to the RESTful JSON interface, you need to set the JWT token
using the `Grpc-Metadata-Authorization` header field. The token needs to
be present for each request!

When using [gRPC](http://grpc.io/), the JWT token needs to be stored in the
`authorization` key of the request metadata. For example in Go, this can be
done by the [grpc.WithPerRPCCredentials](https://godoc.org/google.golang.org/grpc#WithPerRPCCredentials)
method.

## Security / TLS

By default, all API requests are performed over plaintext, meaning that
everybody is able to eavedrop. Therefore it is recommended to enable TLS
for both the gRPC and http server (web-interface and RESTful API). This can
be done by using the `--grpc-tls-key`, `--grpc-tls-cert`, `--http-tls-key` and
`--http-tls-cert` [configuration](configuration.md) flags. Note that you
can use one certificate for both the gRPC as the http server.

### Self-signed certificate

A self-signed certificate can be generated with the following command:

```bash
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout key.pem -out cert.pem -days 90 -nodes
```

### Let's Encrypt

For generating a certificate with [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/),
first follow the [getting started](https://letsencrypt.org/getting-started/)
instructions. When the `letsencrypt` cli tool has been installed, execute:

```bash
letsencrypt certonly --standalone -d DOMAINNAME.HERE 
```

Commit message:

Use single http server when TLS is enabled.

docs/api.md, after:

# API

LoRa Server provides a [gRPC](http://www.grpc.io/) API for easy integration
with your own platform. On top of this gRPC API, LoRa Server provides a
RESTful JSON interface, so that you can use the API for web-applications
(note that gRPC is a binary API layer, on top of
[protocol-buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/).

!!! info "Protocol-buffer files"
	LoRa Server provides a gRPC client for Go. For other programming languages
	you can use the .proto files inside the [api](https://github.com/brocaar/loraserver/tree/master/api)
	folder for generating clients. See the [gRPC](http://www.grpc.io/) documentation
	for documentation.


## gRPC interface

The following example in [Go](https://golang.org/) creates an application and
node using the gRPC API:

```go
package main

import (
	"log"

	"golang.org/x/net/context"
	"google.golang.org/grpc"

	"github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api"
)

func main() {
	conn, err := grpc.Dial("localhost:9000", grpc.WithInsecure())
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	defer conn.Close()

	appClient := api.NewApplicationClient(conn)
	nodeClient := api.NewNodeClient(conn)

	_, err = appClient.Create(context.Background(), &api.CreateApplicationRequest{
		AppEUI: "0102030405060708",
		Name:   "example app",
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

	_, err = nodeClient.Create(context.Background(), &api.CreateNodeRequest{
		DevEUI: "0807060504030201",
		AppEUI: "0102030405060708",
		AppKey: "01020304050607080102030405060708",
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
}
```

The following clients are available:

* [ApplicationClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#ApplicationClient)
* [NodeClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#NodeClient)
* [NodeSessionClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#NodeSessionClient)
* [ChannelClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#ChannelClient)
* [ChannelListClient](https://godoc.org/github.com/brocaar/loraserver/api#ChannelListClient)


## RESTful JSON interface

Since gRPC [can't be used in browsers yet](http://www.grpc.io/faq/), LoRa Server
provides a RESTful JSON API (by using [grpc-gateway](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway))
on top of the gRPC API, exposing the same API methods as the gRPC API.
The REST API documentation and interactive console can be found at `/api/v1`.

![Swagger API](img/swaggerapi.jpg)

## Authentication and authorization

Both the gRPC and RESTful JSON interface provide an option for authentication
and authorization using JSON web tokens / [JWT](https://jwt.io). To enable
this option, make sure to start LoRa Server with the `--jwt-secret` argument
(or `JWT_SECRET` environment variable). 

An example claim illustrating the options that can be included in the token:

```json
{
	"exp": 1257894000,             // the unix time when the token expires
	"admin": false,                // admin users have access to all api methods and resources
	"api": ["Node.Get"],           // list of api methods the user has access to
	"apps": ["0102030405060708"],  // list of AppEUIs the user has access to
	"nodes": ["*"]                 // list of DevEUIs the user has access to
}
```

For nodes and applications, besides the (hex encoded) AppEUI / DevEUI a
wildcard (`*`) can be given to give the user access to all applications
and / or nodes.


The API methods can be given as:

* `[*]`: all methods of all the APIs
* `["Node.Get"]`: listing each APIs method
* `["Node.(Get|Delete)"]`: combining multiple methods for the same API
* `["Node.*"]`: all methods of the Node API

### Setting the authentication token

For requests to the RESTful JSON interface, you need to set the JWT token
using the `Grpc-Metadata-Authorization` header field. The token needs to
be present for each request!

When using [gRPC](http://grpc.io/), the JWT token needs to be stored in the
`authorization` key of the request metadata. For example in Go, this can be
done by the [grpc.WithPerRPCCredentials](https://godoc.org/google.golang.org/grpc#WithPerRPCCredentials)
method.

## Security / TLS

By default, all API requests are performed over plaintext, meaning that
everybody is able to eavedrop. Therefore it is recommended to enable TLS.
As a side-effect, both the RESTful API and the gRPC will be served on the
same port (this is because the Go http server only enables http/2 when TLS
is enabled).
Enabling TLS can be done by providing the `--http-tls-key` and
`--http-tls-cert` [configuration](configuration.md) flags.

### Self-signed certificate

A self-signed certificate can be generated with the following command:

```bash
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout key.pem -out cert.pem -days 90 -nodes
```

### Let's Encrypt

For generating a certificate with [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/),
first follow the [getting started](https://letsencrypt.org/getting-started/)
instructions. When the `letsencrypt` cli tool has been installed, execute:

```bash
letsencrypt certonly --standalone -d DOMAINNAME.HERE 
```
